Cooked: Michael Pollan

	Fire, air, water, and earth; together you get, not Captain Planet, but Cooked. Through these four lenses Pollan takes us through simple beginning tales of cooking, to complex systems in our meals we are just beginning to understand. 

	Fire, most simplistic and carnal, and so important to our development. Our brain, while only a small portion of our combined mass, uses a huge amount of energy. Look at me, sitting at a desk, writing this, the calories per word I use are phenomenal. Pollan writes that without the nutrient additives benefitted from cooking, we would spend all our waking hours eating raw foods. Hence why we see apes eating all day. We wouldn't have the complex language, or really anything we associate with being civilized. Early man was able to cook meat, start the breaking down of complex structures into easily digestible parts, thus allowing us more social time. Society as we know it grew from fire. It makes sense why so many cultures have origin stories for it. I love it, because we talk of fire helping man ward off predators, and to keep warm, but I feel like the nutrient density aspect rarely comes up. Flash forward to present day and Pollan takes to current day man still cooking with fire, a trip via whole hog cooking. While I've never had whole hog bbq, I certainly want to try it now. I thought the cooking practice was a bit overdrawn, but I did appreciate Pollan brining elements from his past work in, ala the discussion regarding where the meet comes from. They're talking about how "traditional" their whole hog bbq is, and Pollan counters with their cheap CAFO meat, raised on corn and pumped full of hormones. It was great to hear that bbq pit masters are looking into more traditional meat now. Ian would appreciate the ceremonial aspect of whole hog bbq, especially Pollans own monthly neighborhood gatherings. From the first fires man gathered around to the ones happening everyday we have always stared at the glowing embers. It's great to know we can connect with our past in such a simple way.

	Water. A current passion of mine is the process Pollan outlines in the 2nd part of Cooked. Cooking with water, a method far more civilized than fire. With water you can take plant matter, which one would usually pass through, and perform dietary magic, and turn it into a healthy, filling, nutritious soup, soup, chili, etc. I love looking in my fridge at the end of the week, finding bins full of "dispensable" vegetables and building a giant pot of soup. Where fires have a community form around them so can soups. The book stone soup has been fresh on the tip of my tongue lately, communities, like my fridge, depositing their one off vegetables to make a meal for all. That's the magic of soup, it's so additive. Could a celery stick, an onion, .5 stick of butter, water (broth), salt and pepper, sustain me separately? No, but the sum is so much greater and nutritious. The surmisings of roommates coming home to a bubbling pot, the scent filling the home is so much more satisfying than smoke. Cooking with water is the taming and control of fire to do your bidding. You need a pot (civilization, society) to do it.

	Air. A chapter which is truly enlightening to read. The idea of a sourdough starter is so groovy, you can make one anywhere, and the microbes are local. You can have completely local bread. I also found it amazing that no matter where you are, your sourdough starter and my sourdough starter will have a lot of the same microbes.

	This chapter came at a great time, friends had been doing the paleo diet, dissing bread and here Pollan comes in with great topics to contention. This book, I've realized, is all about nutrient density. Every chapter that common thread is woven throughout. But, back to bread. You can take grain, make porridge of it, and live, but you have to eat a lot, and the energy input for your body to digest is very high. Here come sourdough cultures, or yeast, to the rescue. You take whole grains, give it to your sourdough starter, and it starts digesting it for you. Not only that, but 1000s of microbes increase the diversity of that grain and help your stomachs flora/fauna. Yeast does the same thing, but nowadays its monocultures so you don't get the robust diversity of microbes that benefit your stomach. The bread maker gets reliable product, but the consumer gets inferior, nutrient deficient bread. 

	Yeast is not the only culprit in today's bread hate; which I honestly think is warranted. Before mills were so precise we did not have white bread, we had muddled bread; with bits of the bran and husk; things that made the breads of the past healthy and life sustaining. Today we have whole wheat bread, but it's actually white flour with bran reconstituted, and it's not even all the bran, just some small percentage. Bread gets hate because man overdid himself. We had something nutritious, but our never-ending pursuit of purity and cleanliness stripped away every healthy bit. We've got perfectly white, mouth watering, sweet, soft, crunchy bread; that's unhealthy to eat. If you want to eat "healthy" bread from a big corporate bread company, which is loaded, artificially, with calcium, fiber, and whole grains you can find it, but they'll over yeast it and leave you wanting for your old white bread. Now, you can pull off whole wheat sourdough, and while the crumb and crust isn't to die for, you can sustain yourself off it.

	Pollan brings in elements from Food Inc, elucidating on monocultured yeast and grains. How we've pulled the nutrients from our grains for gains in production and easy milling. Saccharomyces cervisae is more detailed in his Earth quarter, but there's a lot of bleeding between these sections.
	
	You can buy nutritionally dense bread, that won't upset your stomach (I'm looking at you gluten worriers) that's still delicious. Is it super easy to find and the cheapest loaf of bread on the shelf; no. But, given some experimenting you can find it, or even follow Pollans example and try your hand at making your own bread. (It sounds intimidating, I agree.)


	Earth. Fermentation is really what this section should be called; and the allusion to the Earth is a bit of a stretch. Fermentation is the breaking down, composting, of food matter, but we stop the process to eat the fermented food. You are selectively very selectively, letting your food rot. It's amazing when a section in a book comes at exactly the right time in one's life. Saccharomyces Cervisae, the yeast or bacteria most common in fermentation, and crucial to making beer or wine, is the main star of this chapter. I was barrel tasting during this chapter, and having added this to my vocab was awesome The depth of discussion made available, with my two uncles, Greg and Scott, concerning fermentation was awesome, They are both immensely valuable resources, I could talk to Scott about sauerkraut and kimchi, and to Greg about wine and brewing. This section even shed new light on cheese for me. Fermentation is really an amazing process. You take milk, add some heat, agitate, then let wild, or controlled, microbes take over and watch as your milk spoils in just the right way. It's also great how we've learned that microbes that are healthy for us, like lactobacillus, will, given enough time, outcompete all the bad microbes. Fermentation makes food safe to eat, water (in the form of beer or wine) safe to drink, and it even helps food keep. Once you've let your fermented food outcompete all the nasty organism it will keep for quite a while, especially if kept cool or sealed.

	I also enjoyed thinking about our gut flora and fauna; and how by eating over yeasted bread, or perfectly "clean" food we've killed all our healthy guy bacteria. It's one of the seasons I've started drinking Kombucha, and sourdough bread. Both add to your stomachs good microbes, and help you digest other foods. Our bodies are complex machines, and like a machine which needs oil to lubricate its parts, we need gut bacteria that are healthy and diverse. People with fulltime gas probably have unhealthy gut bacteria, and could use some competitive lactobacillus. 

	Pollan really outdid himself with Cooked. He took on each subject with gusto, attempting to do as he wrote; cooking whole hog, making delicious soups, hunting for the perfect artisan style bread, and fermenting at home. He made me realize how important it is to pay attention to where your food is made, and to learn to make it yourself. I bought a cookbook, which mirrored Pollans language and have been cooking up a storm having a blast. It really is a great thing to be able to do; to join the ceremony man has been a part of since our dawn. To cook is to be human, to be human is to cook. 	
