Cunt: Inga Muscio

	It can certainly be said this book was written for those with cunts. As a male I learned quite a few things, and I will admit, there were times it was hard to see past my bias. Am I glad I read Cunt? Of course. Did I enjoy everything in the book; no. 
	
	I am privileged, immensely, and it refreshing to see it. I feel like Inga is mad, and she should be! No, not mad, that connotes insane, delusional, etc; she is angry. And a lot of that anger showed through Cunt. At times it made me feel uncomfortable, but it also made me angry too. As a male, when reading feminist literature you have to self-reflect, and put yourself in their shoes. 

	Let's talk positives. Discussion of Menses. Cunts are not to have cotton shoved up them, nor are their possessors meant to wear diapers. Diva cups are divine, and apparently so are sponges. Talk of menses is uncomfortable for men, as we never experience it. Language like Moon Goddess is great; in that instead of vilifying ones menses, we make it angelic. I don't know the pain of cramps, or the terror of sneezing during a moon blood; but I can understand wanting to feel beautiful, while society claims you are at your worst moment.  
	 
	The word vagina, now a yuck word. A scabbard or sheath for a sword. Many women will say "A vagina, I don't have one of those." A cunt is simply a word for a woman’s genitalia. It does not put any expectations on the genitalia, a cunt need not have a penis in it, nor need it birth a baby. It only needs to be a cunt. Now, as a male I have to be very careful with my usage of the word cunt. I will never use it in a derogatory way, but I mean to use it lovingly, to give it power back.

	Cunt talks of abortion. Another eye opener. A Hoover, to literally suck at your uteral walls, then, weak and horrified and destroyed on the inside, one is simply cast onto the street! Or, you've given an hour. Are you kidding me? One hour, to recover then leave. They should be weekend spas, with plush rooms and soft pastels, hopefully not the same Hoover(one would hope we could make something better), then two days of supportive chats, relaxing spas/hot tubs, massages, followed by chocolate and wine. But this current system, dear god. Our author, Ms. Muscio, has also self-induced an abortion. We are amazing creatures, with the cognitive ability to make anything happen with our bodies. By committing the mental image of aborting the baby, and drinking teas (like something out of a GRRM book) she was able to miscarry. In her home, in her bathroom, she felt ill, went to the bathroom, and there was the miscarry, delivered on her floor. She cleaned it up, threw it away, and went on her life. But she had to be committed, both physically and metaphysically, to killing the being growing inside her. It was a really interesting section to read. I would have never thought this was possible, but alas it seems to be doable.

	Rape. I am truly sorry that anyone has to go through something as terrible as rape. I hope in the future I can be more of an ally. To hold them and help them feel loved and safe. Cunt details some awful scenarios that really happened, which only to go reinforce my acknowledgment of my privilege. 

	I very much enjoyed the revisions. The book was feeling a little dated. I especially enjoyed the discussion involving transgendered persons. I love that Ms Muscio was welcoming of them. I was surprised at the reaction during the Womyn Conference; although I can understand how jarring a penis would be in that scenario. Now, it would seem transgendered folk are welcome.

	I also like how Cunt brought to the forefront of my thoughts a question of the sex of my authors. I've read over a dozen books this year, with only 3 of them written by women. I'd gather that's till better than average, but the thought that hadn't really percolated up on its own. And what’s even worse, all the female written books have been about feminism or relationship/gender studies. The sci-fi, mystery, cooking and fiction have all been by men so far. Oh bother.

	Some points of disagreement. And truly, I feel as though I have to walk on eggshells. Ms. Muscio will not use "feminine hygiene products" as they have been manufactured by men. She will also not use birth control, as that has been made by men as well. She has this fear that men, as they have been proven in the past to keep women down, that the forms of birth control are doing the same thing. She goes so far to critically analyze her home, to put post-it notes on all things made by either men or women, and to strive for a larger female to male ratio. My bias is showing. I don't like that idea. I think it vilifies. I wish it could be like Mandela's post-apartheid South Africa. Imagine: suddenly the women have all the power, but they don't rape, beat, or subjugate men (even though admittedly they'd have every right to) but they show that they are better than us. I feel like Ms. Muscio would disagree.

	Today, Louis C.D. made a great, if not limited statement, that America has been a democracy for 94 years, the length of time women have been allowed to vote. If we have more mixed dialogue with that tone, then I think we'll grow to be a better nation. Analyze your privilege, understand how someone else might react or feel. With simple tools we can balance the scales. We may tip from side to side first, but I think we'll get there.	   	   	   
~JMK
