The Futurological Congress: Stanislav Lem

	Lem is truly fun, in so many ways. To imagine that this book was written in polish, then translated into English, whilst maintaining the fabulous wordplay is mind boggling.

	One of my new favorite words comes from this book, benignimizers. A drug to make people feel benign to their situation. LTNs, or Love They Neighbor bombs, also a great thought from Lem. A terrifying thought, but a great one.

	Ijon Tichy, a time traveling relic, kept young by space flight. His "old world “attitude gets him in and out of binds constantly. The future and the future's future, painted by Lem is wild. Like Starship Diaries, we find ourselves stuck in cerebral loops, brought on by psychems. Ijon seems able to see through the fog, to catch the wool just before its been pulled over his eyes. It's his out of time element that lets him make the non-obvious "person of that time" choice. He drinks the water from the hotel tap, which puts him in a drug induced euphoria, which he overcomes to return to the congressional meeting. What does he find? Everyone behaving normally! He realizes that in the future, people don't drink tap water. In this he gets a heads up; the entire water supply has been loaded with mind altering drugs. Prepared for the worst, did I mention the Futurological Congress is not the only convention happening in that hotel? It seems persons from all walks ad paths of life are in the same location for various conferences. Attraction by the guerilla forces is what exacerbates this whole psychemmed water. But, given all that, Ijon grabs a professor friend and warns him of the impending crisis.

	War suddenly breaks out, LTN bombs being dropped from the sky, guerilla forces fighting military forces, and the giant hotel full of people is in a panic. Escaping the quickly war torn hotel, Ijon and the professor make their way to the sewer system. Here the real fun begins. Remember, the water is totally laced with drugs, and soon the air is too. Psychems, after Ijon momentarily takes off his gas mask, send him down a hideous hallucination induced spiral where he constantly doubts his reality. With motifs of upright walking rats Ijon awakes from countless hallucinations. Finally, as the outbreak calms down, since everyone has been benigned, the powers at be freeze Ijon and other members from the Futurological Congress; with the guise that their input will be needed for future congresses. Flash forward 1000 years, Ijon is awoken to a seemingly perfect communist world. He has handlers, but is free to roam, and finds the professor awoken as well. The professor has become a linguist, and here is where the fun wordplay begins. They start talking the etymology of words, see page 72.

	With all these great words, and their explanations, which are even more entertaining, the world appears a very strange place to Ijon. He still can't seem to get over his fear that his world is a hallucination. Adding to this fear is the fact that people in the future are incredibly chemically dependent. Nervous, take 10 mg X, giddy, take 5 mg Y, there's a drug cocktail for all scenarios. Even if you hate someone, there is a pill that will let you, in your mind’s eye, beat the living crap out of that person. Ijon often sees people gritting their teeth, even though they look blissful. That's because they're beating the hell out of someone. All of this is a bit too much for Ijon, and he hastily discusses it with the professor. Noting his friends’ passion for the truth the professor shares a dark secret with him. Everyone, whether consciously or not, is psychemmed all the time. In the air, water, food, soil, bed sheets, the world you see is not true. With one whiff from a small bottle Ijon momentarily can see the world around him, no psychems. He goes from sitting in a 5 star restaurant to a shabby room sitting at a concrete table and chairs with one inhale of the nostril. Future whiffs reveal changed clothing, people seemingly riding in cars who are really just running everywhere, to the automata Ijon thought were so futuristic are actually just people psychemmed into believing they are robots. What a world! Ijon, driven by his lust for truth, finally comes to a meeting with George P Symington Esquire, the head honcho, mastermind responsible for all humankind. "2098, with 69 billion inhabitants". Literally, people are stacked one atop another, and psychemmed to believe they are living in a beautiful world. George P Symington Esquire gives Ijon an ultra powerful depsychemmer, and let's him see the world as it really is. A barren wasteland, destroyed by man, with people wandering naked, skin hanging off their bone-thin bodies. Which way is better to live? George P Symington Esquire asks, do we kill 60 billion people, just so 8 can be happy? He wants to convince Jon, but this old world man just won't be convinced. Crashing through a windows taking George P Symington Esquire with him Ijon is ready for the end. But ground does not arrest his fall, sputtering water from his lungs he looks up to see the shimmering walls of the underground sewers.

	This book, this book. Tricky to start and get into, but once the LTN bombs drop this books just takes off in your hands. The lack of chapters was annoying, but can be overlooked due to the sheer fun, albeit head shaking as well as heavy nostril breathing fun. Looking forward to reading more by Lem.

~JMK

Just great fun.	 	 
