The Circle: Dave Eggers

	Props to Jen Smith for suggesting this book; what a fun rabbit hole to fall down. Not only fun, but mirroring; it gave me a reflective surface to look at my own social habits; and possibly better scenarios to use in conversation when walking about digital fears. 

	It's definitely a book written for people my age, but I also feel like older audiences would enjoy it as well. Social media, companies like Facebook or Google seem like this tidal wave, tsunami, that has swept through our culture. I would be naive to think that older generations wouldn't appreciate "The Circle".

	Set in the near future, The Circle is a very "google-esque" company. Their fingers deeply entwined in all sectors, mostly tech based, but branching into biology, etc. I was just reminded how IBM was setting Watson, their supercomputer, loose on the cancer genome. That kind of idea is right up The Circles alley. Mae, our main character, gets a job customer experience (service) at The Circle. She came from a technologically backwards utility companies, where she underages everyone by 10 to 20 years, and mundane computer tasks were seen as IT wizardry; sounds familiar. Coming from such a polar opposite world we see Mae swept off her feet; albeit while thinking "Why couldn't all these things be this easy or put together". The ink she uses for her thumbprint, for example, leaves no residue; she's handed a tablet and phone, both engraved with her name instantaneously as she sits at her desk, and her old laptops data is whisked away into the cloud within minutes. That's the Circle. Simplification; cloud backup; a single service to handle all your digital needs. And they do it better than anyone else. 

	We quickly see how working for a social media tech giant differs from a low tech utility company. First, it is mandatory (like pieces of flair) that Mae check her inner circle posting, and outer circle postings, and that she attend campus parties. They are big on partying and building community. There is the Partirank system, which ranks your digital involvement, and after a serious meeting where Mae is questioned about her only being on campus during working hours we get our first crisis. This is where I was curious what road we would travel down. Is Mae going to fight the system, or is she going to play their game? Staying up, pulling an all-nighter Mae spends hours joining zing (twitter) feeds, following more groups, and posting more content. She's in. Her rank goes up; and her personal score increases.

	Let's talk about point, or scores at the Circle. When Mae first gets a score it at the CE center, a customer satisfaction score. When the score comes in at 98, they send another survey, asking what they did wrong, and the score usually bumps up to 100. Then Mae gets a wrist watch, which as described in print, has a dizzying array of numbers on it; heart rate, steps per day, partirank score, CE score, your number of followers, etc.  It was overwhelming to me. In the CE center each worker gets a sense of their effectiveness, and they lay out the benefits so nicely, yet the idea unnerves me.

	Of course we get the nods to 1984 in a book of this caliber. And the slogans of the Circle reek of it. See this:
		Secrets or Lies
		Sharing is Caring
		Privacy is Theft
	
	Woof, doublethink at its finest and with a setup as such Dave Eggers wanted us to see. You don't get more blatant than that. This idea, that every moment should be captured and shared is carried to such a perverse level. And their arguments are so simple, and emotion grubbing it's hard not to agree. To disagree is to basically say you are selfish. Mae goes on a kayak trip in the middle of the night, visits an island not many have visited before, steals the kayak to get there, doesn't zing about it, or take pictures of it, and when this is all presented the sense of disgust you get form her peers is disgusting. It's like she murdered someone. She should share this experience so others who are less able bodied can experience it too. She should be selfless, and share all her experiences, so the world can fully understand her. 

	Thankfully we do get a foil to all this, Mercer, an ex of Mae and long time family friend. He fights against Maes digital assaults and writes her letters in hopes to persuade. We get some of my favorite parts in his presence. When at dinner Mae is entranced by her phone, in her mind helping Mercer get more digital exposure, he asks her to stop and join the real world. He goes so far to say he'll leave if she doesn't and that just what happens. We see Mae slip further into the Circle mindset, seeing his choice with malice and indignation. We have other foils surface, but Mercers letters and diatribes are the most visceral and relatable.

	We finally get to the ultimate sharing is caring through the Transparency Program. You guessed it, full time monitoring, excluding restroom and sleeping time. We get a nod towards this near the beginning of the book, when at a Circle keynote we learn of their new camera system. The size of a lollipop, with a 2 year battery, and a 1080p lens they achieve flawless video streaming. It begins innocently, wanting to know your local surf conditions, so one camera stuck on a stick pops up on the screen, but as the keynote progresses we see that the Circle has put thousands of camera up, from Cairo to Syria. Of course these are sold as a means of protecting people; supposedly cutting crime rates by a slated 70 - 80 %. Through this the Transparency Program is not a huge leap. Their first subject is a nobody; but their second is a U.S. Senator. With her involvement the push comes for more lawmakers, congressmen and women, and senators to be transparent; their logic; they work for us, what have they to hide. Eventually Mae becomes transparent, and her position at the Circle grows immensely. She’s pretty sold on the Circle, her entire life is public, the ultimate social network.

	The Circle, the book, does a good job at rising questions and topics during this section of the book. Many of the questions being raised right now in regards to Google glass, and even simply recording police officers. We notice, when people are speaking to Mae, and therefore all her followers, they they take on an almost newscaster type voice and style. No one really has a personal conversation with her anymore, and taboo subjects just can't come up. For this reason they talk how pornography watching and masturbating will diminish, as people would be able to see what you are searching and watching. This requires more thought, but as of now I disagree. I think, even with people watching you, we'd engage in those things. I can see how crime would decrease, if you knew you'd be caught, would you still commit the crime. Probably not. But if you want to get your kicks out of watching me masturbate, hell that might even turn me on more.

	The book covers a lot of territory, and for someone looking to reinforce their resistance to social media and connectedness this books hits the nail on the head. For me I was personally uncomfortable with the portrayal of communism. This is something I need to reconcile. I like a modicum of privacy, but is it necessarily true that what I don't share with my commune hurts them? Shouldn't they truly get to know me, and if I feel they won't reject me, why not tell them all my deep dark secrets? There's a subreddit for everything they say; maybe if I shared all I'd find the right community to be a part of. But does all that mean that nothing is private?

	These reviews and writing, I'm not writing them for anyone but me. These are for me. That's selfish, it truly is. The Circle would say that what I read should be shared, so that folks who don't have time to read can have the knowledge that I have. A quandary I have placed myself.  A self named communist who doesn’t want to share everything. There's a part of me that agrees, but another that wants my me time, that wants to have things that are private. And that's not very communist.

~JMK

Give it a read, its fun, and will go quick.


	
